---
layout: post
title: Alex Soojung-Kim Pang, Rest
summary: Deliberate rest can boost productivity, stimulate creativity, give us more time and space to pursue a more meaningful life.
category: Key-takeaways-from-important-reading
tags: [book, rest, productivity, creativity]
---

- Rest and work complements each other.
  - Rest is an essential component of good work as world-class people alternate daily periods of intense work and concentration with long breaks.
  - Rest is active since the brain doesn't switch off when we go to sleep but get busy doing work such as consolidating memories, reviewing the day.
  - Rest is a skill. People don't just become world class only by deliberate practice. They also practice deliberate rest.
  - Deliberate rest stimulates and sustain creativity.
    - Many notable creatives do their most intense work in the morning, go on walks, takes nap during the days, allow their subconscious mind to wander and explore.
    - Other shows consistency in habits and hobbies.
- People don't view rest properly.
  - Science is now full of political power and competition. One has to go fast so there is no time to concentrate for a long period of time.
  - Most scientists assume that long hours are required to produce great work.
  - We treat modern workaholic as heroes.
- Mind wandering is necessary for creativity.
  - A long break after hours of intense focus can help one see the problem better.
  - 4 stages of a thought:
    - Preparation: immerse in the problem, get familiar with all its parts, examine from every angle, must be so fluent with the work that subconscious can play with it
    - Incubation: let the mind wander, do not force it, trust that your unconscious will drive you to the next phase
    - Illumination: aha moment, the answer bursts into consciousness, suddenly, like an inspiration
    - Verification: set the solution on a logical foundation, fill in the details or fit it into a bigger project
- To treat incubation and illumination like skill every day, develop and refine daily routines and practice that preserve time for mind-wandering.
  - Get up to 4 hours of really focused, serious work everyday.
    - Practice hardest and longest in the morning.
    - Take a nap/walk/break in the afternoon to stretch out the day (increase alertness, decrease fatigue, improve memory).
    - Have a second practice in the late afternoon or evening.
    - Try to work at the exact same time and make it a routine.
  - Stop working at the right point, just to see the next move but leave it until tomorrow.
    - Give subconscious free time to work to provide time for incubation and illumination.
    - Provide a chain for the brain to recover some of the energy it had previously expended.
    - Make it easier to get back into the rhythm when you resume the next day.
- Other than taking breaks during the day, the ability to put work completely out of your mind and attend other things is just as important.
  - A number of scientists have been noted athletes, competed in several competitions and won many medals. Essentially, not only they're world-class at their jobs, they're also killing the sport game.
    - Not only exercising makes the brain healthier by reducing cholesterol and improving cardiovascular capacity, it introduces profound structural brain plasticity.
    - It stimulates neurogenesis.
    - Has indirect but positive effects on creativity.
  - Some scientists are also avid musicians, practice different art forms such as performing, dancing, poetry and so on.
- Participate in deep play.
  - It's an activity that rewarding on its own, but take on additional layers of meaning and personal significance.
    - It's mentally absorbing by offering player challenges to solve.
    - Offers players a new context in which to use some of the same skill that they use in their work.
    - Offers the same satisfaction as work and also clearer rewards.
    - Provides a living connection to the player's past.
  - Popular forms of deep play:
    - Albert Michelson, first American to win a Nobel Prize (in Physics in 1907), took up tennis, becoming one of the first Americans to master a topspin stroke. He also played violin every morning, took up painting and sailing in the summer and later billiards.
    - Winston Churchill, pained and wrote about painting.
    - Sailing.
    - Hiking, climbing.
    - Crafting.
    - Building robots, engineering side projects.

<br>
**References:**
- <https://www.amazon.com/Rest-More-Done-When-Work/dp/0465074871>
