---
layout: post
title: "Summary: Rework by Jason Fried"
summary: A better, faster, easier way to succeed in business.
category: Key-takeaways-from-important-reading
tags: [book, business, productivity]
---

- Takedowns.
  - Today is a new reality where anyone can be in business.
    - Informations are easy to access and within reach.
    - It's easy to work from home or collaborate with others across the globe.
    - Stuff that was impossible is simple today.
  - Writing a plan makes you feel in control of things you can't control.
    - Plans are guesses.
    - Don't be obsess you it. It's OK to wing.
    - Figure out what's the next most important thing and do it.
  - Don't be insecure about aiming to be a small business. As long as it's sustainable and profitable, you should be proud.
  - Working more doesn't mean you get more done.
- Go.
  - If you're going to do something, do something that matters.
    - To do great work, you need to feel you're making a different, putting a meaningful dent in the universe, that you're part of something important. You don't have to cure cancer. You want your customer say it makes their lives better.
    - You should feel an urgency too as you don't live forever. Don't wait for someone to make the changes you want to see.
  - The easiest way to create a product/service is to make something you want to use.
    - Solve your own problem first as you know what you need the most.
  - Having the idea has nothing to do with actually making it.
    - Start creating.
    - Ideas are cheap, how you execute them are what matters.
  - Perfect time never comes as you're always too busy doing something else. Do it now.
  - Always know why you're doing what you're doing. Stand for something and be proud of it.
  - Avoid outside funding as much as you can.
    - Service businesses don't require much capital to bootstrap anyway.
    - Taking people money means you have less control of your business and more human problem.
    - You need less than you think. Stay lean. Be frugal.
  - Think about profit from day one.
  - Think about commitment strategy (how to grow and succeed), not exit strategy. Focus on getting customers to love you, not about worrying who's going to buy you.
- Progress.
  - Focus on the core product itself, ignore the details early on.
  - Don't wait for the perfect solution. Do it and reflect.
  - Stick to the essential. Cut out unnecessary details, simplify, sort out what truly matters.
  - Once your product does what it needs to do at the minimum, get it out there.
- Productivity.
  - Start making something real. Anything else is just a distraction.
  - Ensure that you're doing work that matters?
    - Why are you doing this?
    - What is the problem, exactly?
    - Is it actually useful?
    - Is it adding value at all?
    - Is there an easier way?
    - What could you be doing instead?
    - Is this really worth it?
  - Interruption is the enemy of productivity.
  - Avoid meetings as they're unproductive most of the time. Only meet when:
    - Have a set time.
    - Invite as few people as possible.
    - Have a clear agenda.
    - Begin with a specific problem.
    - End with a solution and implementation plan.
  - When good enough gets the job done, go for it. You can usually turn good enough to great later.
  - Build momentum by accomplishing small wins regularly.
  - Have enough sleep everyday.
  - Break your time frames into smaller chunks and estimate accordingly.
  - Use a small todo list.
- Competitors.
  - Don't copy competitors since you don't know their why. Instead, believe your way.
  - Instead of trying to win a competitor, focus on quality (really good basic features) instead of quantities (more features).
  - Don't spend too much time worrying about competitors. Focus on improving yourself instead.
- Evolution.
  - Learn to say no.
  - Ask for feedbacks and ideas with enthusiasm but always evaluate the priority with a calm mind.
- Promotion.
  - When it's early, it's easier to take risks without worrying about embarrassing yourself.
  - Build an audience.
    - Speak, write, blog, tweet, make videos, and so on.
    - Share valuable information and slowly grow your fan.
    - Get people interested in what you have to say.
  - Teaching/sharing educational content is one of the best marketing tactics.
  - Be genuine. Be transparent.
  - Have personal, meaningful press releases instead of vague and generic ones.
  - As long you have something to sell, don't be afraid to give things away for free.
- Hiring.
  - Do it yourself first to understand what it takes.
  - Hire when you can't do it no more.
  - Pass on hiring people you don't need.
  - Hire slowly.
  - How long someone's been doing it is overrated. What matters is how well.
  - Hire the best talent, regardless where it is.
  - Best way to test-drive applicants is to see them work. Hire for a mini project and go from there.
- [Getting real.]({% post_url 2020-03-13-getting-real %})

<hr>
**References:**
- <https://basecamp.com/books/rework>
